[MUSIC]
>> Mike North: You all
are already using components.
If you use something like this,
you're using a component.
Under the hood, so this may just
seem like a simple dom element.
Under the hood, there exists complexity.
So the idea behind a component
in general is that, or
a web component in general is that when
you're consuming this in your application.
When you place a text field,
you're dealing with a sort of
a single element that has
a contract with the outside world.
So in this case you have
the concept of a place holder and
you don't have to worry about the fact
that there is a separate div inside
the component in its internals where the
placeholder is actually rendered right.
You don't have to worry about that.
You just now have this text input.
It has this attribute called placeholder.
When I set it equal to something
it will handle it properly.
And Ember components work the same way.
So they live in the components folder.
They're templates.
Are in a components subfolder
of the templates directory.
Each component is associated
with a top-level DOM element.
By default this is div,
but you can customize it.
And one of the more powerful
aspects of components,
is that you have a very strong
encapsulation with the outside world.
And you have to pass data into it
explicitly which is actually a benefit.
But you have to pass data into it
explicitly rather than giving it access to
a generalized scope of data and what this
insures is that Your component is not
gonna have side effects by altering things
that maybe it wasn't designed to alter.
You have a contract that contract
is the means of getting data in and
out of sending actions out and this
is a powerful concept that lets you
build little islands of complexity,
and then sort of wrap them up and
consider them to be a black box.
and when you are composing them to
build user interfaces and screens.
You don't have to worry about the concept
of place holder being a div that is
positioned in a particular place and
when you start typing,
this place holder should disappear.
The component will manage all of that
internally so you build it once and
then you can use it over and
over and over in your app.
Additionally, these components have
a well-orchestrated life cycle.
This is very important
in a single-page app.
If you are used to writing jQuery.
The jQuery ready hook
is the go to place for
initializing things and setting things up.
There is no equivalent in
the single page app without this.
Right, because components come and
go at various times,
the only concept of the DOM being
ready is a pretty meaningless one.
it's when your app first starts up.
And so this gives you
equivalent hooks where you can
perform things when
the component is instantiated.
Perform things right before it's
inserted into the DOM and right after.
So these are the important
life cycle hooks to remember.
>> Mike North: This is the equivalent
of jQuery.ready document ready.
And, so this is where you would
set anything up, where you would,
if you're using a jQuery ui plugin or
you're using d3 or
if you need to something,
run some code that will initialize
some dom based on a configuration
this is where you'll do it.
It's important that you tear
things down if you set them up.
Usually I parody between these two hooks.
Where you'll initialize something and
maybe start listening to window.resize and
then as you tear the component down,
detach that listener,
clean up after your self.
And the reason is in a single page app
you're dealing with the same pool of
memory, the same pile of listeners and
same events going back and forth or
potentially hours and hours and hours.
You don't get this page load
where you boil the ocean
every time the user clicks a link and
goes to a new page.
So if these are designed
in a way that they leak and
they leave listeners dangling around,
you can run into performance problems.
So very important to think about
cleaning up after yourself here.
>> Mike North: In terms of consuming
components, just the fact that a component
exists will tell Ember to create
a handlebars helper for it automatically.
So if I create a component
called my-component
I can consume it just like this,
just like }.
You'll notice that I have a dash in there.
That's required in
the name of a component.
You must have a dash and
that is a cue to ember to tell it
I'm not dealing with handle verse
helper I'm dealing with the component.
You can use block sentax we've
already been using block sentax.
If you think about each or we begin with a
hash tag and we have a closing slash each.
There is a way Just like you
can have an input which is.
An HTML input is a single
element just like an image.
A div or a paragraph tag has an open and
a close and you have that flexibility of
building components that
work in those ways as well.
And all components that
are in your application
that are in the application namespace,
are available throughout your app.
And I phrase it that way
because you can install
add ons that will make components
available for consumption in your app.
So it's anything that's in the component
folder you can use anywhere and
add ons can add to that even more.
>> Mike North: So here's a typical
example what you often see is something
as simple as this where you have
the name of the component and
then a series of key value pairs
which essentially establish
a contract between the inside world and
the outside world.
So on the left side you have some
names which are things that's
the components internal schema, right?
So this would be in the case of our input
example this attribute called placeholder.
That's something that this
component knows about.
On the right side,
you have either literals or properties or
names of actions.
But that is sort of what these things
are mapped to on the outside world.
So in this case we've got this concept of
mySize which may exist on a controller or
another component.
But we've created two
way data bonding there.
And we've also passed a string
literal in for title.
And we have said that when this component
fires this action called "on-favorite",
I want this "thingClicked"
action to be fired.
What your route will handle or
your controller, potentially.
So the idea here is internal
to external mapping.
So when I talk about an explicit contract,
this is it right here.
So the naming convention is important and
you're probably getting the idea having
already worked with routes and templates,
and you have to make sure that
your files are correctly named.
The same holds true here, and
I just wanna take a moment to explain
at a high level how this works.
So if you see my component in a template
Ember will use something
called the resolver,
which essentially is a mapping
of strings to ES six modules.
It will use the resolver to try
to find a JavaScript module and
a template for this component,
and components can exist without
having an explicit JavaScript module or
without having an explicit template.
Just like with routes and
with templates you sort of fall back
to a generic base which comes for free.
But just keep in mind that if you name
things correctly, things will just work.
But if you have a spelling error or if
you've put something in the wrong folder,
you may see a result you don't expect.
>> Mike North: So
when it comes to customizing components,
we have a lot of options here.
So, we can see that tagname
is what can be used to
deviate from the default
outer wrapper element type,
the default being div, so here this
component is going to a an li element.
We can add class names to
that outer root element, and
we can establish attribute bindings.
The way attribute bindings work,
you can have them in one of two ways.
If we look at a line and
we have a property called a line here and
what's gonna happen is if you
look at the resulting HTML and
you can see we've got this
DOM attribute called align,
that's gonna be mapped to
the property in JavaScript.
So the difference between
the age attribute binding and
the align attribute bindings is that
we're customizing the name of
the DOM attribute in this case.
By default the name of your property and
the name of the attribute will be
the same, if you don't have this
notation with the colon in it.
The notation with the colon in it
let's you kind of change that mapping.
In this case, we end up with data dash
age is 32 and a line equals left.
Because we have said that when
this binding this age property,
we want it to use this name.
And you can also see that we're able
to use defaults, so
here I'm passing in an age for
the first instance of this component and
in the second one I'm not.
And it's falling back to whatever
the default value which is sort
of how it define it at how I describe
the class itself so it make sense.
>> Mike North: So components have actions
internally right if you use the action
handle bars helper in this components
template the component will
have the ability to handle actions in
the same way that we've been using routes.
You have these actions object and
then function names and
that's how you create your action binding.
Anything that you wanna communicate
to the outside world to consumers of
this component, you have to do through
an action binding and use this.sendAction.
>> Mike North: It is okay to send an
action when there is nothing bound to it.
So the idea here is if we
were making some text based
components where we have a bunch of key
up and key down and where can correct and
all of things available for consumption
It's totally fine to be sending those out
and to have nothing listening for
them on the other end.
It ends up being a no op.
So I just wanted to draw a clear
distinction between that situation and
the situation where yesterday we saw
unhandled action outside of a component.
Will actually throw an error message
telling you nothing is dealing with this.